Object Oriented Programming 

For Object you need to give it a design which is a Class 

JVM is responsible to give you the Object 

Instance Variables are actually stored with the Object itself and it can be used in any method

Local Variables are stored with the method 

For using a Object in java you need another object for it 

(); -> this is called a Constructor 

We we create the object using refrence it's known as Constructor

Normally Constructors can be used to assign the values if you don't have it initially

By default Java created it's own Constructor but what if we don't want default constructor and we want our own Constructor

Just write Public in the Class Constructor Name should be same as class name and now you can assign values in it

obj Keyboard = new Keyboard();

Keyboard obj;
obj = new Keyboard();

How to create Object and Class 

Int = can be written without "";

String = Can't be written without "";

We canot access Instance Variable of other class in our class without using obj. before the instance variable name 

We can change the value of variables

If the instance variable is called before the initialization then the value would be change but if we apply final before that than the value is constant and now it cannot be changed 

Inheritance 

If we want to access all the features of another class we can use Inheritance 

It can happen with the help of keyword Extends 

The class which use extends keyword is Child Class / Sub Class

The class which is called is Parent Class / Super Class becuase we are inheriting the features of Parent Class to Child Class

We can also create the Child Class of Child Class then the Child Class will be called Super Class and the class which is called by the child class will be Sub Class

That's what we called Multi-Level Inheritance 

Multiple Inheritance doesn't work in java due to ambiguity issues 

Suppose two parent class have same name then the program will got confuse whom to perform 

HIERARCHICAL INHERITANCE 

HYBRID INHERITANCE 

Combination of single and multiple inheritance. 

Achieved in the same way as multiple inheritance 

BENEFITS OF INHERITANCE 

- Code Reusability 
- Maintence 
- Polymorphism 
- Organized Code Structure 

METHOD OVERRIDING IN INHERITANCE 

. It allows a subclass to provide its own implementation for a method already present in tis 

Q. What if we write return type in Constructor ?

CONSTRUCTOR INHERITANCE 

INHERITING A PARAMETRIZED CONSTRUCTOR 

First only the Parent Class Constructor is going to execute only then the Child Class Constructor will execute

Q. What is is/has relationship ? 

. Inheritance 

STATIC / ABSTRACT & FINAL KEYWORD 

Final - Constant 

Final Function and Final Variable 

In Mathematical Calculation value of PIE

Private Constructor restrict the user from accessing the Object

ENCAPSULATION 

When we assign our Variables and method they should be closely Binded 



PACKAGE & ACCESS MODIFIER

Package means collection of related classes, interfaces and subpackages.

Java have huge number of build in classes in java

Types 

1. Built in 
2. User defined

Built in Package

1. java.util
2. java.io
3. java.lang
4. java.net

User defined Package / Custom Package

Rules for creating a Package

1. Give a meaningful name
2. Organize
3. Avoid Nesting of Packages

Whenver you create a package its in white color and when you create a class its in yellow color  

Key Points

. While importing another package, package declaration must be the first statement and followed by package importing

. A class can have only one package statement but it can be more than one import package statement. import cab be written multiple times 
after the package statment abd before the class statment

Benefits 

. Organization 

MODIFIER

. It's a keyword that we add to those definitions that we need to 

. Define the boundary for accessing members of a class and a class itself 

Public - Anyone can access it. No restrictions at all

Private - Only you can access it. No one else Can

Protected - You'll use your assests and your children inherit them. No one elsase will

Default - So outside your package, no one can, even if it is you

Protected Indirect child can't access it , Direct child can easily access it 

Interface 

java.info/quizzes/onconceptsquiz.html#google_vignette

INHERITANCE 

BUFFERREADER

. To read the data from file and keyboard

MethodOverloading 

FUNCTIONOVERLOADING

KEY POINTS

A Constructor cannot be final 
A Block cannot be final 
A local final variable must be initialized at the line of declaration 

STATIC KEYWORD

Static is a keyword that is used for memory management mainly

Static means single copy storage for variables or methods

STATIC FUNCTION 

A Static method in a class can directly access other static members of the class
